---
layout: default
title: "We're not your local ISP"
author: "yanosz"
date: 2015-05-20 14:00:00
---
Let's get things straight. We're not an Internet Service Provider (ISP). We do provide Internet, but we don't serve you. Hence we are not a Service provider. People often ask about the difference between a regular ISP and Freifunk-KBU. This is my answer:

The Freifunk-KBU project is run under the hood of the Chaos Computer Club Cologne (C4) e.V. Our community is doing research, education, tinkering and promote using technology in a creative as well as critic ways.
We come together to learn, hack and program. We share experiences and knowledge, while following the tradition of CCC's "Erfra-Kreise". We educate people in Internet technologies such as IPv6, BGP or WWAN and provide connectivity. Thus we allow people to take apart in the digital world, while looking on social, political and technical issues.

Looking at ISPs you get Internet in exchange for money. Looking at Freifunk-KBU you get knowledge, fun and insights in exchange for passion and time.

Tackling some other questions:

##### Can I rely on Internet for production use in KBU's network?
Definitely not. The network is neither designed to provide Internet connectivity 24/7 nor to provide a certain quality.

##### Do you compete with other Hotspot providers such as Deutsche Telekom?
No. We neither have customers, nor customer support. We are not a service provider. We do prototyping and experiments. Hotspot operators focus on using established technologies while acting as service providers. Thus we believe in coexistence.

##### Are you an Internet Provider?
We think so. Providing Internet connectivity behalf of the CCC, we are one. 

##### What's the Freifunk Killer-App / the Killer-Service. Why do we need a Freifunk-network if there's ubiquitous Internet (UMTS/LTE) operated by service providers?
As already pointed out, our mission is different and not accomplished by having ubiquitous internet operated by service providers. From a social point of view, a decentralized, free network owned by the people is a very good way for reducing the digital divide and to ensure free access to information. 

##### Can you help to set up a wifi installation or provide Internet at my project, home, fair, event, camp, etc.
Yes - most probably. Following the project's spirit, you're welcome to join us, to learn stuff and to extend the network corresponding to your project - as long as your project does not contradict our mission statement.

Furthermore, you can try to inspire members of our community to take an active part in setting up your installation. This especially holds for challenging installations or non-profit events.

